PVF: Add test instructions (#2058)
paritytech/polkadot-sdk: polkadot/node/core/pvf/README.md

# PVF Host

This is the PVF host, responsible for responding to requests from Candidate
Validation and spawning worker tasks to fulfill those requests.

See also:

- for more information: [the Implementer's Guide][impl-guide]
- for an explanation of terminology: [the Glossary][glossary]

## Running basic tests

Running `cargo test` in the `pvf/` directory will run unit and integration
tests.

**Note:** some tests run only under Linux and/or with the `ci-only-tests`
feature enabled.

See the general [Testing][testing] instructions for more information on
**running tests** and **observing logs**.

## Running a test-network with zombienet

Since this crate is consensus-critical, for major changes it is highly
recommended to run a test-network. See the "Behavior tests" section of the
[Testing][testing] docs for full instructions.

To run the PVF-specific zombienet test:

```sh
RUST_LOG=parachain::pvf=trace zombienet --provider=native spawn zombienet_tests/functional/0001-parachains-pvf.toml
```

## Testing on Linux

> Much of the PVF functionality, especially related to security, is Linux-only. If

Reviewer: and some of it x86-only

you touch anything security-related, make sure to test on Linux! If you're on a
Mac, you can either run a VM or you can hire a VPS and use [EternalTerminal][et]

> to ssh into it. (ET preserves your session across disconnects, and unlike mosh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to ssh into it. (ET preserves your session across disconnects, and unlike most shells
```

Reviewer: didn't know mosh was a tool, I thought it's a typo 😆

Author: Haha! I have this note here because et is still unknown compared to mosh, but either of these tools are *huge* improvements over ssh.

# PVF Host

## Running basic tests

The first step is to build the worker binaries:

```sh

> SKIP_WASM_BUILD=1 cargo build --bin polkadot-execute-worker --bin polkadot-prepare-worker

Author: Might not be needed soon after https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/pull/2018?

Reviewer 2: Yep, running `cargo test` would do this automatically if the workers aren't already available or stale.

Author: Nice, this just bit me again today where I forgot to rebuild them. I'll try to get to that PR. BTW, how do you tell if they're stale?

Reviewer 2: I was referring to those version checks. Thought they're used for that, are they? :)

Author: Yes, you're right. :) What I had in mind is, when testing here we can make the version check more strict. It is not very strict usually (only enforcing the release version of the node), because we don't want to enforce frequent rebuilds for most development, where the PVF workers have not changed. But for these tests specifically, if someone is running them, there is a high likelihood that the workers are being developed and changing. With that in mind, we can additionally take into account the latest git commit hash and rebuild if it's changed. The workers should already have a `--full-version` flag which includes this. Do you think this is reasonable?

Author: This would have saved me some time when I forgot to rebuild them [last week](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/pull/2058#discussion_r1374447111).

Reviewer 2: You mean to do a commit hash match instead when given this additinoal flag? Sounds good to me :)

Author: Er, I think so. Just to be clear, in #2018 the new function that rebuilds the workers only runs in PVF tests, and there it makes sense to always include the commit hash in the check. So you can pass this flag to the workers when getting their version for the check.

# PVF Host

This is the PVF host, responsible for responding to requests from Candidate
Validation and spawning worker tasks to fulfill those requests.

See [the Implementer's
Guide](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/book/pvf-prechecking.html#summary)
for more information and the
[Glossary](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/book/glossary.html) for an
explanation of the terminology.

## Running basic tests

Running `cargo test` in the `pvf/` directory will run integration tests. Note
that some tests run only under Linux.

## Observing Logs

To verify expected behavior it's often useful to observe logs. To avoid too many
logs at once, run one test at a time:

1. Add `sp_tracing::try_init_simple();` to the beginning of a test
2. Specify `RUST_LOG=parachain::pvf=trace` before the cargo command.

For example:

```sh
RUST_LOG=parachain::pvf=trace cargo test execute_can_run_serially
```

For more info on how our logs work, check [the
docs](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/master/polkadot/node/gum/src/lib.rs).

> ## Running a test-network with zombienet

Reviewer 3: Nit: Wouldn't this steps be better at the top of this repo ? And if we already have them can we just reference them, since they might change.
